The fift place, is that of Matth. 5. 22. "Whosoever is angry with his
The sixth place is Luke 16. 9. "Make yee friends of the unrighteous
Tabernacles." This he alledges to prove Invocation of Saints departed.
The Eight is Acts 2. 24. where St. Peter saith of Christ, "that God
The Originall Of Daemonology
The impression made on the organs of Sight, by lucide Bodies, either in
This nature of Sight having never been discovered by the ancient
The Graecians, by their Colonies and Conquests, communicated their
The Scriptures Doe Not Teach That Spirits Are Incorporeall
Temple," shall we conclude thence that hee was possessed of the Devill,
The Power Of Casting Out Devills, Not The Same It Was In The Primitive
The places of Scripture pretended to countenance the setting up of
The Worship we exhibite to those we esteem to be but men, as to Kings,
To worship an Image, is voluntarily to doe those externall acts, which
To be uncovered, before a man of Power and Authority, or before the
Throne of a Prince, or in such other places as hee ordaineth to that
To pray to a King for such things, as hee is able to doe for us, though
To worship God, in some peculiar Place, or turning a mans face towards
The Gentiles worshipped for Gods, Jupiter, and others; that living, were
The summe of that which I have said hitherto, concerning the Worship of
This also is to bee considered, that as Hezekiah brake in pieces the
The cause whereof, was the immoderate esteem, and prices set upon the
The Canonizing of Saints, is another Relique of Gentilisme: It is
Testimony of his Sanctity. Julius Caesar, and other Emperors after him,
The Name Of Pontifex
The carrying about of Images in Procession, is another Relique of the
To these Processions also belonged the bearing of burning Torches, and
The Heathens had also their Aqua Lustralis, that is to say, Holy Water.
The Church of Rome imitates them also in their Holy Dayes. They had
The faculty of Reasoning being consequent to the use of Speech, it was
There were also Schools, anciently, both before, and after the time of
The Schoole Of Graecians Unprofitable
The Schools Of The Jews Unprofitable
The Schoole of the Jews, was originally a Schoole of the Law of Moses;
Traditions of their Ancestors.
That which is now called an University, is a Joyning together, and an
To know now upon what grounds they say there be Essences Abstract, or
True, False, Syllogisme, Interrogation, Promise, Covenant, are the names
Then for Physiques, that is, the knowledge of the subordinate, and
That Not Men, But Law Governs
Tyrants, and to think it lawfull to raise warre against them: And yet
There is another Errour in their Civill Philosophy (which they never
That The Church Militant Is The Kingdome Of God, Was First Taught By
The Church Of Rome
To this head, I referre also all those Doctrines, that serve them to
Thirdly, the exemption of these, and of all other Priests, and of all
The Names Of Sacerdotes, And Sacrifices
Testament but Presbyters, that is, Elders) the name of Sacerdotes, that
The Sacramentation Of Marriage
The Single Life Of Priests
Transubstantiation, Penance, Absolution
Tenthly, by the Doctrine of Purgatory, of Justification by externall
The Authors Of Spirituall Darknesse, Who They Be
To these, if they sufficed not, might be added other of their dark
Truth, wee are to attend his good pleasure, that suffereth many times
