Thus ends the behaviour of the woman with the go-between.
The followers of Babhravya on the other hand affirm that even though
The go-between should also show to the woman ornamental figures of
The followers of Babhravya say that this meeting should take place at
This name is also given to one who is sent by either of the lovers to
The above name is also given to a woman who having made an agreement
Thus end the different kinds of go-betweens.
The head man of the village, the King's officer employed there, and the
The union of the above mentioned men with this class of woman takes
Thus end the means of gaining over the wives of others secretly.
The above mentioned ways of gaining over the wives of other men are
There are also two verses on the subject as follows:
The women of the royal harem cannot see or meet any men on account of
The heart of an ichneumon, the fruit of the long gourd (Tumbi), and the
The following principles are laid down on this subject.
The entrance of young men into harems, and their exit from them,
Thus act the wives of others.
The followers of Babhravya say that a man should cause his wife to
The following are the causes of the destruction of a woman's chastity:
The loose habits of her husband.
The company of loose women.
The jealousy of her husband.
There are also the following verses on the subject.
This Part VI., about courtesans, was prepared by Vatsyayana, from a
The details of the domestic and social life of the early Hindoos would
The subtlety of women, their wonderful perceptive powers, their
TO HERSELF THE MAN DESIRED; AND OF THE KIND OF MAN THAT IT IS DESIRABLE
TO BE ACQUAINTED WITH.
These persons are:
The guards of the town, or the police.
The officers of the courts of justice.
Teachers of the sixty-four arts.
The following kinds of men may be taken up with simply for the purpose
The only son whose father is wealthy.
The woman also should have the following characteristics, viz.:
The following are the ordinary qualities of all women, viz.:
To be possessed of intelligence, good disposition, and good manners; to
The faults of the women are to be known by the absence of any of the
The following kinds of men are not fit to be resorted to by courtesans,
Thus end the means of attaching to herself the man desired.
There are also some verses on the subject as follows:
There are also two verses on the subject as follows:
Thus end the ways and means of getting money.
The behaviour of a waning lover is as follows:
The means of getting rid of a lover are as follows:
There are also two verses on this subject as follows:
Thus end the ways of bringing about a re-union with a former lover.
There are also verses on the subject as follows:
The gains of the wealthiest and best kind of courtesans are to be spent
The gains of other courtesans are to be spent as follows:
There are also verses on the subject as follows:
THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF COURTESANS.
The results of these losses are:
Thus end the remarks on gains and losses, and attendant gains and
The following are examples.
Thus end the remarks on doubts.
The combination of gains and losses on all sides are: gain on one side,
Thus ends the consideration of gain, loss, attendant gains, attendant
The different kinds of courtesans are:
Thus end the considerations of courtesans.
There are also two verses on the subject as follows:
This is a means of increasing the loveliness of a person in the eyes of
The daughter, too, should make herself attractive to the sons of wealthy
Thus end the ways of making oneself lovely in the eyes of others.
Thus end the ways of subjugating others to one's own will.
There are also verses on the subject as follows:
The following are the different kinds of Apadravyas.
The above are the things that can be used in connection with or in the
The people of the southern countries think that true sexual pleasure
The ways of enlarging the lingam must be now related.
The enlargement of the lingam is also effected by rubbing it or
The miscellaneous experiments and recipes are as follows:
There are also some verses in conclusion:
Thus ends, in seven parts, the Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana, which might
