This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Title: The Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana
Translator: Richard Burton
Transcriber's note
The author of the 'Secrets of Love' (No. 1) was a poet named Kukkoka. He
The work contains nearly eight hundred verses, and is divided into ten
The author of the 'Five Arrows' (No. 2 in the list) was one Jyotirisha.
This work contains nearly six hundred verses, and is divided into five
The author of the 'Light of Love' (No. 3) was the poet Gunakara, the son
The author of the 'Sprout of Love' (No. 5) was a poet called Bhanudatta.
The contents of these works are in themselves a literary curiosity.
There are to be found both in Sanscrit poetry and in the Sanscrit drama
The 'Aphorisms on Love,' by Vatsyayana, contains about one thousand two
This commentary was most useful in explaining the true meaning of
THE VATSYAYANA SUTRA.
The sixth part of this last work was separately expounded by Dattaka at
Thus the work being written in parts by different authors was almost
These three words are retained throughout in their original, as
This is not so. Sexual intercourse being a thing dependent on man and
The Lokayatikas[4] say:--Religious ordinances should not be observed,
Those who believe that destiny is the prime mover of all things say:--We
Those who are inclined to think that Artha is the chief object to be
This objection cannot be sustained, for pleasures, being as necessary
Thus a man practising Dharma, Artha and Kama enjoys happiness both in
The following are the arts to be studied, together with the Kama
THE LIFE OF A CITIZEN.[13]
The following are the things to be done occasionally as diversions or
The subjects of discourse are to be the completion of verses half
The same also applies to bathing in summer in water from which wicked or
The above amusements should be followed by a person who diverts himself
These persons are employed in matters of quarrels and reconciliations
This remark applies also to female beggars, to women with their heads
Thus a citizen living in his town or village, respected by all, should
There are some verses on this subject as follows:--
These special occasions are when a man thinks thus:--
The following women are not to be enjoyed:--
The followers of Babhravya say that any woman who has been enjoyed by
The following are the kind of friends:--
These friends should possess the following qualities:--
They should tell the truth.
They should not be changed by time.
They should be favourable to your designs.
They should be firm.
They should be free from covetousness.
They should not be capable of being gained over by others.
They should not reveal your secrets.
The man who is ingenious and wise, who is accompanied by a friend, and
The word Nayika is retained as a technical term throughout.]
There are thus three equal unions between persons of corresponding
There are then, nine kinds of union according to dimensions. Amongst all
There are also nine kinds of union according to the force of passion or
Those who differ from this temperament are called men of middling
This opinion is, however, objected to on the grounds that if a male be a
The followers of Babhravya, however, say that the semen of women
To this there is an objection. In the beginning of coition the passion
This objection, however, does not hold good, for even in ordinary things
There is also a verse on this subject as follows: "Men and women being
The pleasure of men and women being thus proved to be of the same kind,
There being thus nine kinds of union with regard to dimensions, force of
This part of the Kama Shastra, which treats of sexual union, is also
The action in each case is denoted by the meaning of the word which
The above two kinds of embrace takes place only between persons who do
These two last embraces are peculiar to those who know the intentions of
These two kinds of embrace take place when the lover is standing.
These two kinds of embrace take place at the time of sexual union.
The embrace of the thighs.
The embrace of the jaghana, _i.e._, the part of the body from the navel
The embrace of the breasts.
The embrace of the forehead.
There are also some verses on the subject as follows: "The whole subject
The following are the places for kissing, viz., the forehead, the eyes,
There is also a fifth kind of kiss called the "greatly pressed kiss,"
There is also a verse on the subject as follows:--
The places that are to be pressed with the nails are as follows: the arm
The qualities of good nails are that they should be bright, well set,
This pressing is used in the case of a young girl when her lover
The marks of the nails should not be made on married women, but
There are also some verses on the subject, as follows:
The qualities of good teeth are as follows: They should be equal,
The defects of teeth on the other hand are, that they are blunt,
The following are the different kinds of biting, viz.:
This is impressed on the breasts.
The lower lip is the place on which the "hidden bite," the "swollen
The marking with the nails, and the biting of the following things,
The women of the central countries (_i.e._, between the Ganges and the
The women of the Balhika country are gained over by striking.
The women of Avantika are fond of foul pleasures, and have not good
The women of the Maharashtra are fond of practising the sixty-four arts,
The women of Pataliputra (_i.e._, the modern Patna) are of the same nature
The women of the Dravida country, though they are rubbed and pressed
The women of Vanavasi are moderately passionate, they go through every
The women of Avanti hate kissing, marking with the nails, and biting,
The women of Malwa like embracing and kissing, but not wounding, and
The women of Abhira, and those of the country about the Indus and five
The women of Aparatika are full of passion, and make slowly the sound
The women of the Lat country have even more impetuous desire, and also
The women of the Stri Rajya, and of Koshola (Oude), are full of
The women of the Audhra country have tender bodies, they are fond of
The women of Ganda have tender bodies, and speak sweetly.
There are also some verses on this subject as follows:
The Deer-woman has the following three ways of lying down.
The "clasping position" is used in "low congress," and in the "lowest
The above are the different ways of lying down, mentioned by Babhravya;
Thus says Suvarnanabha, these different ways of lying down, sitting, and
