The following kinds of congress, viz., sporting in water, or the
The same things can be done when several men are sitting in company with
The people in the Southern countries have also a congress in the anus,
Thus ends the various kinds of congress. There are also two verses on
There are also two verses on the subject as follows:
The wedge on the bosom, the scissors on the head, the piercing
They are local peculiarities, but Vatsyayana is of opinion that the
There are also two verses on the subject as follows:
There are two ways of doing this, the first is when during congress she
Then when his lingam is erect he should touch her with his hands in
The signs of the enjoyment and satisfaction of the women are as follows:
The acts to be done by the man are:
This takes place at the end of congress.
There are also some verses on the subject as follows:
There are two kinds of eunuchs, those that are disguised as males, and
The following eight things are then done by the eunuch one after the
The Auparishtaka is practised only by unchaste and wanton women, female
The Acharyas (_i.e._, ancient and venerable authors) are of opinion that
The people of Eastern India do not resort to women who practise the
The people of Ahichhatra resort to such women, but do nothing with them,
The people of Saketa do with these women every kind of mouth congress,
The people of the Shurasena country, on the southern bank of the Jumna,
There are also the following verses on the subject.
Traces of the practice are found as far back as the eighth century, for
This is the end of sexual union.
Thus ends the kinds of congress.
Thus end the love quarrels.
Thus ends marriage.
There are also some verses on the subject as follows:--
Thus he should procure for her such playthings as may be hardly known to
There are also some verses on the subject as follows:--
THEREBY. ALSO WHAT IS TO BE DONE BY A GIRL TO GAIN OVER A MAN, AND
There are also some verses on the subject as follows: A girl who is much
There are verses on the subject as follows:--In all the forms of
THE ABSENCE OF HER HUSBAND.
Towards the parents, relations, friends, sisters, and servants of her
The wife should always avoid the company of female beggars, female
The kitchen should be situated in a quiet and retired place, so as not
The wife, moreover, should not tell to strangers the amount of her
Thus ends the manner of living of a virtuous woman.
The resources should be increased by making purchases and sales
Thus ends the part relating to the behaviour of a wife during the
There are also some verses on the subject as follows.
TOWARDS MANY WIVES.
The causes of re-marrying during the lifetime of the wife are as
Thus ends the conduct of the elder wife.
The younger wife should regard the elder wife of her husband as her
Thus ends the conduct of the younger wife towards the elder.
The followers of Babhravya say that a virgin widow should not marry a
Thus ends the conduct of a virgin widow re-married.
The above sections will show how all the women of the King's seraglio
The female attendants in the harem (called severally Kanchukiyas,[54]
Thus ends the conduct of the King towards the women of the harem, and of
Thus ends the conduct of a husband towards many wives.
THE ADDRESSES OF MEN.--ABOUT MEN WHO HAVE SUCCESS WITH WOMEN, AND ABOUT
The wives of other people may be resorted to on the occasions already
The causes of a woman rejecting the addresses of a man are as follows:
The following are the men who generally obtain success with women.
The following are the women who are easily gained over.
There was also two verses on the subject as follows:
Thus ends the ways of making the acquaintance of the woman desired.
Thus ends the examination of the state of a woman's mind.
