Therefore, he that beleeveth Jesus to be the Christ, is free from all
Thunderbolt Of Excommunication) proceeded from an imagination of the
The men, to whom he was to prove that Jesus was the Christ, and risen
Testament was not yet published in one Body. Every of the Evangelists
There be two senses, wherein a Writing may be said to be Canonicall;
That part of the Scripture, which was first Law, was the Ten
The Judiciall Law, that is to say, the Laws that God prescribed to the
The Second Law
This was the Law, which Moses (Deuteronomy 17.18.) commanded the Kings
The Old Testament, When Made Canonicall
The New Testament Began To Be Canonicall Under Christian Soveraigns By
Therefore there is no doubt, but when S. Paul wrote to the Churches he
That which may seem to give the New Testament, in respect of those that
The first Councell, that made the Scriptures we now have, Canon, is not
The first Apostle, of those which were not constituted by Christ in the
These appointed two, Joseph the Just, and Matthias (ver. 23.) and caused
Teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of
The same is also confirmed by the continuall practise even to this day,
The word Minister in the Originall Diakonos signifieth one that
That the first Deacons were chosen, not by the Apostles, but by a
Tythes, and Offerings: and that it is which is meant, where God saith, I
The Ministers Of The Gospel Lived On The Benevolence Of Their Flocks
The Civill Soveraign Being A Christian Hath The Right Of Appointing
Teach the people, but by their permission and authority.
This Right of the Heathen Kings, cannot bee thought taken from them by
Teachers hee elects, are elected by the Church. And when an Assembly of
The Pastorall Authority Of Soveraigns Only Is De Jure Divino,
That Of Other Pastors Is Jure Civili
There is no doubt but any King, in case he were skilfull in the
The same is also said again, Levit. 1.4. & 8.14. Likewise Moses when he
Temples amongst the Heathen, as that the Priest laid his Hands on
This ceremony was not therefore new in our Saviours time. For Jairus
Timothy (1 Tim. 5.22.) "Lay Hands suddenly on no man;" that is, designe
The Civill Soveraigne If A Christian, Is Head Of The Church
Though this that I have here said, and in other places of this Book,
The First Book
The Second Book
The second Book hath two Conclusions: One, that S. Peter was Bishop
The Third Book
The Fourth Book
The first, that his Judgments are Infallible: The second, that he can
Texts For The Infallibility Of The Popes Judgement In Points Of Faith
The second place is that of Matth. 16. "Thou art Peter, and upon this
The third text is John 21. ver. 16,17. "Feed my sheep;" which contains
The fourth place is that of Exod. 28.30. "Thou shalt put in the
Texts For The Same In Point Of Manners
To prove the Pope has Power to make Laws, he alledgeth many places; as
The third place, is John 21.16. "Feed my sheep;" which is not a Power
The fourth place John 20.21. is against him. The words are, "As my
The fift place is Acts 15.28. "It hath seemed good to the Holy Spirit,
The sixt place is that of Rom. 13. "Let every Soul be subject to the
The seventh place is 1 Cor. 4.21. "Shall I come unto you with a Rod, or
The eighth place is, Timothy 3.2. "A Bishop must be the husband but of
Timothy was not a Subject, but a Disciple of St. Paul; nor the flock
Timothy, be Laws, why is not this also a Law, "Drink no longer water,
The tenth place is, Luke 10.16. "He that heareth you, heareth mee; and
The eleventh, is every place, where the Apostle for Counsell, putteth
The last place is that of Heb. 13.17. "Obey your Leaders, and submit
The Question Of Superiority Between The Pope And Other Bishops The last
Therefore when he alledgeth out of the 6 of Luke, that our Saviour
The arguments by which he would prove, that Bishops receive their
The first, is from Numbers 11. where Moses not being able alone to
The second argument, is from the nature of Monarchy; wherein all
The third, is, from that the Sea of S. Peter is called by S. Cyprian,
The fourth, is taken from the Inequality of their Jurisdictions: For
